DSA/Dynamic Programming.md, before:


# Errichto Playlists - defining DP states

1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBSt1jYwVfU&t=246s
	- Fobonacci, Factorial (overlaping subproblem)
	- Distinct ways to reach top (Climbing Stairs)
	- Distinct ways to reach top at most K jumps
	- Minimum Path sum in a grid given start and end positions
2. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1mtvm2ubHCY
	- Represent N as a sum of some numbers - repetition allowed - 112 and 121 are different (Combination Sum I)
	- Represent N as a sum of some numbers - repetition allowed - 112 and 121 are same (Coin Change II - ways)
	- Minimum Coins to make a target sum (Coin Change I - min)
3. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pwpOC1dph6U&t=754s
	- Wine Problem using different approaches of DP-definition
		- Bottom Up (push and pull)
		- Top Down (push and pull)
		- Bottom up (with year invariance - only specific to this problem) - push and pull

#### Relevant Problems

- Climbing Stairs
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/climbing-stairs/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/min-cost-climbing-stairs/
- Minimum Path Sum
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-path-sum/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-falling-path-sum/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-falling-path-sum-ii/
- Combination Sum
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-ii/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-iii/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-iv/
- Coin Change
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change-ii/
- Wine Problem
	- https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/maximum-profit-sale-wines/


# Aditya Verma Playlist - common DP patterns

YT-Playlist: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL_z_8CaSLPWekqhdCPmFohncHwz8TY2Go

#### Problems Discussed

1. **0-1 Knapsack**
	- [0-1 Knapsack](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/0-1-knapsack-problem-dp-10/)
	- [Subset Sum Problem](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/subset-sum-problem-dp-25/)
	- [Equal Sum Partition](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/partition-problem-dp-18/)
	- [Count of Subset Sum with given Sum](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-of-subsets-with-sum-equal-to-x/) 
	- [Minimum subset sum Difference](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/partition-a-set-into-two-subsets-such-that-the-difference-of-subset-sums-is-minimum/)
	- [Count the number of subsets with a given difference](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-of-subsets-with-given-difference/)
	- [Target Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/target-sum/)
2. **Unbounded Knapsack**
	- [Unbounded Knapsack](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/unbounded-knapsack-repetition-items-allowed/)
	- [Rod Cutting Problem](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cutting-a-rod-dp-13/)
	- Coin Change Problem (max ways)
	- Coin Change Problem (min no of coins)
3. **Longest Common Subsequence**
	- [Longest Common Subsequence (LCS)](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-subsequence/)
	- Print LCS 
	- [Shortest Common Supersequence (SCS)](https://leetcode.com/problems/shortest-common-supersequence/)
	- Print SCS 
	- [Longest Common Subtring (LCSg)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/longest-common-substring-dp-29/)
	- [Min number of insertions and deletions to covert A to B](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/minimum-number-deletions-insertions-transform-one-string-another/)
	- [Longest Repeating Subsequence](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/longest-repeating-subsequence/)
	- [Length of Largest Sequence of A which is a substring of B](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-length-longest-subsequence-one-string-substring-another-string/)
	- [Sequence Pattern matching ](https://leetcode.com/problems/is-subsequence/)
	- [Count how many times A appears as a subsequence in B ](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-number-times-string-occurs-given-string/)
	- [Longest Palindromic Subsequence (LPS) ](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindromic-subsequence/)
	- [Longest Palindromic Substring (LPSg) ](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindromic-substring/)
	- [Count of Palindromic Substring ](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-palindrome-sub-strings-string/)
	- [Min no. of insertions to make a stringPalindrome ](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-insertion-steps-to-make-a-string-palindrome/)
	- [Min no. of deletions to make a string Palindrome ](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/minimum-number-deletions-make-string-palindrome/ )
	  
4. **Matrix Chain Multiplication**
	- [Matrix Chain Multiplication (MCM)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/matrix-chain-multiplication-dp-8/)
	- [Printing MCM](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/printing-brackets-matrix-chain-multiplication-problem/)
	- [Evaluate Expression to True (Boolean Parenthesization)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/boolean-parenthesization-problem-dp-37/)
	- [Min/Max Value of an Expression](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/minimum-maximum-values-expression/)
	- [Palindrome Partition](https://leetcode.com/problems/palindrome-partitioning/)
	- [Scramble String](https://leetcode.com/problems/scramble-string/)
	- [Egg Dropping Problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/super-egg-drop/)


# Atcoder DP Contest

https://atcoder.jp/contests/dp/tasks

# CSES - Dynamic Programming

https://cses.fi/problemset/

# Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock

**YouTube:** Tech Dose (4 variations)

#### Problems:

- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/ 
   only 1 transaction (Choose one day to buy and another day to sell) 
   
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-ii/ 
  Multiple transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock 
  
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-iii/ 
  At most 2 transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock 
  
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-iv/ 
  At most K transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock 
  
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-with-cooldown/ 
  Multiple Transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock - After you sell your stock, you cannot buy stock on the next day 
  
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-with-transaction-fee/ 
  Multiple Transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock - A transaction fee for each buy-sell pair 

# Digit DP

#### Kartik Arora | YouTube Playlist

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb3g_Z8nEv1hB69JL9K7KfEyK8iQNj9nX

- Intro / General Concept
- [Boring Numbers | Google Kickstart](https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/kickstart/round/000000000019ff49/000000000043b0c6)
- [Digit Sum | SPOJ](https://www.spoj.com/problems/PR003004/)
- [Encoding | Codechef](https://www.codechef.com/problems/ENCODING)
- [Counting Numbers | CSES](https://cses.fi/problemset/task/2220)

#### Asish Ranjan - Faad Coder | YouTube Playlist

https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJSqVBBfSpyz_Lb0Baqg2V7cjAg3Rz3yz


# DP with Bitmask

#### Kartik Arora | YouTube Playlist

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb3g_Z8nEv1icFNrtZqByO1CrWVHLlO5g

- Assigning N workers to N jobs: [Problem Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zuw8hBXHsiTYTH8u986fQhn8TWfpOk9BQBIRH3lo_W8/edit), [Solutions](https://ideone.com/FRrbFB)
- [Fish | Div2 - E | Codeforces](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/16/E)
- [Little Elephants and T-shirts | Codechef](https://www.codechef.com/problems/TSHIRTS)
- [Counting Tiling | CSES](https://cses.fi/problemset/task/2181)
- **Travelling Salesman Problem** Given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities, what is the shortest possible route that visits each city and returns to the origin city

# Erichto - Bitwise Operations and Bitsets

1. Part-1
	- [Codeforces Blog | Bitwise Operations for Beginners](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/73490)
	- [YouTube Video | C++ Bitwise Operations tutorial #1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xXKL9YBWgCY&list=PLl0KD3g-oDOHpWRyyGBUJ9jmul0lUOD80)
2. Part-2
	- [Codeforces Blog | Bitwise operations 2 — popcount & bitsets](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/73558)
	- [YouTube Video | C++ Bitsets in Competitive Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jqJ5s077OKo)


# Other Good sheets

## (1) Grid-based DP

https://leetcode.com/list/50izszui/

## (2) Must do Dynamic programming Problems Category wise

https://leetcode.com/discuss/general-discussion/1050391/Must-do-Dynamic-programming-Problems-Category-wise

- Linear DP
- String and DP
- DP with Tree and Graph
- Knapsack based DP
- DP with bits manipulation
- DP on math problems
- Classical DP problems
- Grid based DP
- Multidimensional DP
- Digit problems with DP
- Interval problems with DP

## (3) Dynamic Programming Patterns

https://leetcode.com/discuss/general-discussion/458695/dynamic-programming-patterns

- Minimum (Maximum) Path to Reach a Target
- Distinct Ways
- Merging Intervals
- DP on Strings
- Decision Making

Commit message:

Add leetcode questions to Digit DP Section

DSA/Dynamic Programming.md, after:


# Errichto Playlists - defining DP states

1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBSt1jYwVfU&t=246s
	- Fobonacci, Factorial (overlaping subproblem)
	- Distinct ways to reach top (Climbing Stairs)
	- Distinct ways to reach top at most K jumps
	- Minimum Path sum in a grid given start and end positions
2. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1mtvm2ubHCY
	- Represent N as a sum of some numbers - repetition allowed - 112 and 121 are different (Combination Sum I)
	- Represent N as a sum of some numbers - repetition allowed - 112 and 121 are same (Coin Change II - ways)
	- Minimum Coins to make a target sum (Coin Change I - min)
3. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pwpOC1dph6U&t=754s
	- Wine Problem using different approaches of DP-definition
		- Bottom Up (push and pull)
		- Top Down (push and pull)
		- Bottom up (with year invariance - only specific to this problem) - push and pull

#### Relevant Problems

- Climbing Stairs
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/climbing-stairs/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/min-cost-climbing-stairs/
- Minimum Path Sum
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-path-sum/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-falling-path-sum/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-falling-path-sum-ii/
- Combination Sum
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-ii/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-iii/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-iv/
- Coin Change
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change/
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change-ii/
- Wine Problem
	- https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/maximum-profit-sale-wines/


# Aditya Verma Playlist - common DP patterns

YT-Playlist: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL_z_8CaSLPWekqhdCPmFohncHwz8TY2Go

#### Problems Discussed

1. **0-1 Knapsack**
	- [0-1 Knapsack](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/0-1-knapsack-problem-dp-10/)
	- [Subset Sum Problem](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/subset-sum-problem-dp-25/)
	- [Equal Sum Partition](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/partition-problem-dp-18/)
	- [Count of Subset Sum with given Sum](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-of-subsets-with-sum-equal-to-x/) 
	- [Minimum subset sum Difference](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/partition-a-set-into-two-subsets-such-that-the-difference-of-subset-sums-is-minimum/)
	- [Count the number of subsets with a given difference](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-of-subsets-with-given-difference/)
	- [Target Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/target-sum/)
2. **Unbounded Knapsack**
	- [Unbounded Knapsack](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/unbounded-knapsack-repetition-items-allowed/)
	- [Rod Cutting Problem](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cutting-a-rod-dp-13/)
	- Coin Change Problem (max ways)
	- Coin Change Problem (min no of coins)
3. **Longest Common Subsequence**
	- [Longest Common Subsequence (LCS)](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-subsequence/)
	- Print LCS 
	- [Shortest Common Supersequence (SCS)](https://leetcode.com/problems/shortest-common-supersequence/)
	- Print SCS 
	- [Longest Common Subtring (LCSg)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/longest-common-substring-dp-29/)
	- [Min number of insertions and deletions to covert A to B](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/minimum-number-deletions-insertions-transform-one-string-another/)
	- [Longest Repeating Subsequence](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/longest-repeating-subsequence/)
	- [Length of Largest Sequence of A which is a substring of B](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-length-longest-subsequence-one-string-substring-another-string/)
	- [Sequence Pattern matching ](https://leetcode.com/problems/is-subsequence/)
	- [Count how many times A appears as a subsequence in B ](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-number-times-string-occurs-given-string/)
	- [Longest Palindromic Subsequence (LPS) ](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindromic-subsequence/)
	- [Longest Palindromic Substring (LPSg) ](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindromic-substring/)
	- [Count of Palindromic Substring ](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-palindrome-sub-strings-string/)
	- [Min no. of insertions to make a stringPalindrome ](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-insertion-steps-to-make-a-string-palindrome/)
	- [Min no. of deletions to make a string Palindrome ](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/minimum-number-deletions-make-string-palindrome/ )
	  
4. **Matrix Chain Multiplication**
	- [Matrix Chain Multiplication (MCM)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/matrix-chain-multiplication-dp-8/)
	- [Printing MCM](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/printing-brackets-matrix-chain-multiplication-problem/)
	- [Evaluate Expression to True (Boolean Parenthesization)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/boolean-parenthesization-problem-dp-37/)
	- [Min/Max Value of an Expression](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/minimum-maximum-values-expression/)
	- [Palindrome Partition](https://leetcode.com/problems/palindrome-partitioning/)
	- [Scramble String](https://leetcode.com/problems/scramble-string/)
	- [Egg Dropping Problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/super-egg-drop/)


# Atcoder DP Contest

https://atcoder.jp/contests/dp/tasks

# CSES - Dynamic Programming

https://cses.fi/problemset/

# Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock

**YouTube:** Tech Dose (4 variations)

#### Problems:

- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/ 
   only 1 transaction (Choose one day to buy and another day to sell) 
   
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-ii/ 
  Multiple transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock 
  
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-iii/ 
  At most 2 transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock 
  
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-iv/ 
  At most K transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock 
  
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-with-cooldown/ 
  Multiple Transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock - After you sell your stock, you cannot buy stock on the next day 
  
- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-with-transaction-fee/ 
  Multiple Transactions - but at a time you can hold only one stock - A transaction fee for each buy-sell pair 

# Digit DP

#### Kartik Arora | YouTube Playlist

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb3g_Z8nEv1hB69JL9K7KfEyK8iQNj9nX

- Intro / General Concept
- [Boring Numbers | Google Kickstart](https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/kickstart/round/000000000019ff49/000000000043b0c6)
- [Digit Sum | SPOJ](https://www.spoj.com/problems/PR003004/)
- [Encoding | Codechef](https://www.codechef.com/problems/ENCODING)
- [Counting Numbers | CSES](https://cses.fi/problemset/task/2220)

#### Asish Ranjan - Faad Coder | YouTube Playlist

https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJSqVBBfSpyz_Lb0Baqg2V7cjAg3Rz3yz

#### Some Good Leetcode Hard Problems

1. [POTD: 10-APR-2025 | Count the Number of Powerful Integers](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-the-number-of-powerful-integers/description/)
2. [Numbers With Repeated Digits](https://leetcode.com/problems/numbers-with-repeated-digits/)

# DP with Bitmask

#### Kartik Arora | YouTube Playlist

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb3g_Z8nEv1icFNrtZqByO1CrWVHLlO5g

- Assigning N workers to N jobs: [Problem Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zuw8hBXHsiTYTH8u986fQhn8TWfpOk9BQBIRH3lo_W8/edit), [Solutions](https://ideone.com/FRrbFB)
- [Fish | Div2 - E | Codeforces](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/16/E)
- [Little Elephants and T-shirts | Codechef](https://www.codechef.com/problems/TSHIRTS)
- [Counting Tiling | CSES](https://cses.fi/problemset/task/2181)
- **Travelling Salesman Problem** Given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities, what is the shortest possible route that visits each city and returns to the origin city

# Erichto - Bitwise Operations and Bitsets

1. Part-1
	- [Codeforces Blog | Bitwise Operations for Beginners](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/73490)
	- [YouTube Video | C++ Bitwise Operations tutorial #1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xXKL9YBWgCY&list=PLl0KD3g-oDOHpWRyyGBUJ9jmul0lUOD80)
2. Part-2
	- [Codeforces Blog | Bitwise operations 2 — popcount & bitsets](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/73558)
	- [YouTube Video | C++ Bitsets in Competitive Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jqJ5s077OKo)


# Other Good sheets

## (1) Grid-based DP

https://leetcode.com/list/50izszui/

## (2) Must do Dynamic programming Problems Category wise

https://leetcode.com/discuss/general-discussion/1050391/Must-do-Dynamic-programming-Problems-Category-wise

- Linear DP
- String and DP
- DP with Tree and Graph
- Knapsack based DP
- DP with bits manipulation
- DP on math problems
- Classical DP problems
- Grid based DP
- Multidimensional DP
- Digit problems with DP
- Interval problems with DP

## (3) Dynamic Programming Patterns

https://leetcode.com/discuss/general-discussion/458695/dynamic-programming-patterns

- Minimum (Maximum) Path to Reach a Target
- Distinct Ways
- Merging Intervals
- DP on Strings
- Decision Making
